

different memory locations on your device.

There's four built-in memory locations.

First ROM, the Read Only Memory.
Flash. On older devices, that will be installed in the cache on the motherboard. On newer devices, it's a removable CompactFlash card.
NVRAM, the Non-Volatile RAM
RAM the normal Random Access Memory.
You can also use an external USB memory stick plugged into the device as well.

ROM has got two main functions,
First is the Power On Self Test. The POST test will check for any problems with the hardware.
It will then load the bootstrap, and the bootsrap will look in Flash for an IOS software image to load next.
get instructions, just search in Google for 'Cisco ROMMON Recovery' in case is not boot up and to recover the device


To make sure that you get the newer image, the command to use is
'boot system'
'flash' 
and then the system image name. That's a global configuration command. 


When the system has finished loading the IOS system image from Flash, it will then load the start- up config, configuration file from NVRAM, 
and the saved start-up config then becomes the current running-config in RAM.


Whenever you enter a command in IOS, it takes effect immediately and goes into the running-config in RAM. To make your changes permanent across a reboot,
'copy running-config start-up config' command
that copy it into NVRAM, which will be used the next time the system boots up.


VLAN database
That file is the 'vlan.dat' file.
It's just on a switch where it saves the VLAN information, and that is saved in either Flash or NVRAM, depending on the model of the switch.


TFTP server
load a system image and/or startup-config from an external TFTP server rather than from Flash or NVRAM.
That is not recommended, though, because the device will not be able to boot if it loses connectivity to that TFTP server
So, the only reason you would ever really do that is if you want to load a new version of the system
image and there's not enough Flash memory capacity on your device to store that.
Then, you can save it to an external TFTP server instead and boot from there. 






