

------------------- CONFIGURE ROUTER ------------------------------

Your routers provide connectivity between your different IP subnets. That's their main job.

The routers need to have interfaces in the different subnets, and they need to have IP addresses on those interfaces.
Those IP addresses will act as the default gateway address for any hosts that are in that subnet.

to do this from global configuration mode,
we then go to interface configuration mode.
So the command is 'interface FastEthernet0/0', then to put the IP address on there, 
interface fast0/0
ip address 192.168.0.1 255.255.255.0
no shutdown                  On our routers, interfaces are shutdown by default, you need to type NO SHUTDOWN

  
The IP address and the subnet mask are both entered with one command, and you have to enter the subnet mask infull dotted decimal notation.

After we have configured this, the router is going to be able to route traffic between those two networks.
As well as being able to route traffic, it also gives IP connectivity to the router itself.
So after we've done this, we would be able to open up a Telnet or SSH client, like Putty, and connect to the router to manage it.  
Once you've got IP addresses on your router, you'll be able to connect to those IP addresses to manage the router remotely from wherever you are.


------------------- CONFIGURE ROUTER ------------------------------

A Layer 2 switch is not IP routing aware.
It does, however, support a single IP address which is used for management. So, you can't put multiple IP addresses on a Layer 2 switch.
so we can again Telnet or Secure Shell (SSH) to the switch remotely to manage it.
Unlike on a router, where we configure the IP address on an interface, on a switch, a Layer 2 switch, the management IP address goes on a VLAN interface which is a virtual interface.
So when we configure our VLAN interface, that's called an SVI, Switched Virtual Interface, and this is going to be in VLAN 1.
switch also needs to be able to get out to that subnet. So just like a normal host would need, it's also going to need to have a default gateway

(conf) interface vlan 1, t
ip address 192.168.0.10 255.255.255.0
no shutdown                                 On a switch, interfaces are enabled by default, but I like to do anyways.
(conf) ip default-gateway 192.168.0.1

configure descriptions on our interfaces
SW(config) interface fastEthernet 0/1
(config-if) description Link to R1      ->helps to troubleshooting, this will tells the interface is connect to R1

We actually need to do some additional commands as well to allow Telnet and/or SSH access into the switch.


